hey this is pressure Alice is looking at
Bob and Bob is looking at Charlie Alice
is married and Charlie is unmarried is a
married person looking at an unmarried
person yes no or cannot be determined
surveys have found that eighty percent
of people get this problem wrong while
you're thinking about it I'm going to
present a similar problem a drawer has
ten black socks and ten white socks with
your eyes closed you draw three socks
are you holding a matching pair of socks
yes no or cannot be determined give
these problems a try and when you're
ready keep watching the video for the
solution many people think the answer to
the first problem is C cannot be
determined however we need to work
through the logical possibilities Bob is
either married or not married while we
do not know Bob's marital status we
should work out each case to see if the
condition is met one case is that Bob is
married in that case he is a married
person who's looking at Charlie who is
unmarried
so if bob is married the condition that
a married person is looking at an
unmarried person is true what would
happen if Bob is not married in that
case Alice who's married is looking at
Bob who is unmarried so in this case two
there would be true that a married
person is looking at an unmarried person
so the correct answer choice is a yes
although we don't know which married
person is looking at an unmarried person
we know that some married person is
looking at an unmarried person now let's
tackle the next problem
imagine that we draw the three socks in
order now it could be the case of the
first two socks you pull are both black
or they're both
white in that case you would already
have a matching pair of socks before you
even pull the third sock now what would
happen if that's not the case well then
the first two socks would have to be
different colors you would have to have
one white and one black sock then when
you pull the third sock it would have to
be either a white sock matching the
white sock you already have or a black
sock matching the black sock you already
have the third sock must match one of
the socks you already have therefore in
either case you will always be holding a
matching pair of socks did you figure
out these problems thanks for watching
this video please subscribe to my
channel I make videos on math and game
theory you can catch one on my blog 9
your decisions which you can follow on
Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch me on social media app for soccer
and we liked this video please check out
my books there links in the video
description